---
title: Session recaps
date: 2025-01-01 02:09:00 -0600
permalink: /dnd/the-call/session-recaps
categories: dnd, the-call
toc: true
toc_sticky: true
toc_label: Sessions
---

# Boundary Marker Battle

You fought a battle of champions on behalf of your city-state, Atra, against the city-state Girsu.
The battle was precipitated on the accusation that Girsu had moved the boundary markers between the
city-states. You easily won the battle for Atra.

A victory feast was held in tribute to Ea, the patron goddess of Atra. Ishtar attempted to honor
Ishme, Atra’s Ensi (priest-lord,) by preparing him wild game. However, he prepared it poorly.
Nevertheless, Ishme accepted it graciously.

# Family Reunion

Your youngest brother, Ili, left to visit the city-state Mashal some time ago, but never returned.
Natum, the siblings’ father, was noticeably distraught after it appeared that Ili wouldn't return.
He and Ili had a strong bond as the "normal" members of the family (you being great warriors and
Erish, your mother, being a member of the council of elders of Atra.) Ili has suddenly returned.
Natum is overwhelmed with joy at seeing Ili again. Erish is glad for Ili's return, as well, but
she is careful to maintain a somewhat stoic attitude. She was initially frustrated at Ili's
pilgrimage, thinking that he needed to settle on a simple trade instead of trying to reach the
level of his siblings.

Erish will asked you, her children, Ibate, Ishtar, Inatu, and Ili, to help your father remove a
boulder that washed into the fields.

# Conflict in the Fields

Four field workers come to bully Ili in the fields, Gishkin, Nigba, Hazi, and Gishi. You came to
Ili’s aid and humiliated Gishkin, in particular.

# Guteshasi Well Cave

Ishme asked you to investigate rumors that a people, the Na’ani, are migrating from the west to
escape drought and famine. He hopes to enslave them to build up Atra.

You traversed a cave looking for the Na’ani. You found a lion, which you defeated, and crushed its
bones to pull its body through a tight opening to hide it. At the end of the cave, you found an
ancient well. You found an inscription in the wall: “Guteshasi Well.” You recognized archaic
components of the word "Guteshasi" - "voice," "come together," and "surround." You deduced that
its meaning is roughly “to be united.”

Through a cave opening from the well, you found the Na’ani camped in the Guteshasi Gorge. You
witnessed them sacrifice a child in fire. The child’s corpse was deposited in the cave where the
lion was kept. You took the body with you and buried it in a cave in your land, Shinar.

# Spy Exchange

Having learned from you of the defensible position of the Na’ani, Ensi Ishme involved you in a
plan to leak the information to Girsu through a prisoner exchange. He would ensure Girsu spies
imprisoned by Atra would be given the information of the Na’ani so that they would report back to
goad Girsu into attempting to capture the Na’ani for themselves. During the battle, Atra’s forces
could defeat both the Na’ani and Girsu, bringing the Na’ani back as slaves and weakening the
Girsu’s army.

You were ambushed during the prisoner exchange, but you defeated the ambushers and completed the
exchange, paving the way for leaking the information about the Na’ani to Girsu.

# Ili/Gishkin Conflict

While you were away effecting the Girsu spy exchange, Gishkin, enraged at his recent humiliations,
attacked Ili with the intent of killing him.

Flashes of light drew the attention of police nearby (Undaga & Engarzi.) Seeing Gishkin unharmed
and Ili injured, it was assumed that Gishkin attacked Ili.

During the trial, Ili was found to be completely unharmed and stated that there was no need for
retribution. Gishkin, however, insisted that he owed Ili a great debt, and should be made his
indentured servant until the debt was paid.

Your mother asked you to check on Ili. On the way to Ea’s temple, where you learned Ili was, Nigba
intercepted you and demanded that you come to a cave where your father is being held. He, Hazi,
and Gishi captured him as retribution for their humiliation in the fields and Gishkin’s servitude
to Ili.

Ishtar successfully intimidated Nigba into revealing the location of your father. It turned out to
be the cave where you buried the Na’ani boy.

You defeated Hazi and Gishi and rescued your father.

# Ersi Lake

The spies returning to Girsu had information that Arta wants to capture Ersi Lake, a source of
bitumen that Ensi Ishme wants to leverage to build up Atra using the Na’ani. Ensi Ishme suspected
this but accepted the risk due to the potential benefit of Girsu attempting to capture the Na’ani.

You were sent to capture the lake and succeeded. During the battle, you encountered Zu (male) and
Zana (female), retired priest-generals renown for their battle cunning. You killed Zu but brought
back Zana as a captive.

# Revelation of the Seven

Ili asked you to meet him at the mouth of the cave that leads to the Guteshasi Well, saying that a
new god had revealed himself to him and that there they will meet the god that he now serves. It
was this god that directed Ili to return.

You went to the well at Ili’s request. There, Inatu and Ibate underwent a ritual cleansing in the
well’s waters, but Ishtar refused to participate. A force descended on the well that Ishtar was
unable to cross. After a day, the force lifted and Innate and Ibate were found unharmed.

You all then had a vision where you were avatars, children of Neha and Mushde, feasting with your
fellow citizens of the city of Erid.

| Player | Avatar | Meaning       |
|--------|--------|---------------|
| Ibate  | Gu'ul  | to increase   |
| Innanu | Hada   | to shine      |
| Ishtar | Zag    | chosen        |

You were celebrating the departure of your parents, who have become senile over the past year,
prophesying that a new god had revealed to them that the sky would soon rain fire and had
instructed them to build a refuge. That morning your parents had left, telling you, their
children, that if you run to their shelter at the first sign of the firestorm, which would be
coming that night, you would arrive before being consumed.

The feast began in the afternoon with sacrifices of animals, beer, and wine to your city's god,
Enlil, thanking him for ridding you all of the annoyance of your parents' restrictive moral
teachings and proclamations of doom.

A few hours later, it degenerated in a fashion that was typical. Dormin (female,) the only undigir
(demi-god) in Erid and its founder, began to wantonly kill people to show her strength. Others
started killing to take what they wanted from their victims. Orphans, the infirm, and the elderly
were rounded up and burned on Enlil’s altar. Some ate of the charred human flesh.

The sun set and darkness deepened. An orange glow gradually started illuminating the mayhem.
Seconds later, a massive ball of fire struck the center of the raving feasters. You fled to your
parents’ shelter, chased by frenzied feasters who almost look bestial.

Only Zag survived. Mushde inscribed the Zag’s name along with hers and her husand’s, Neha, along
with the name of the well: Guteshasi Well. This ended the vision.

After the vision, you entered the gorge where you encountered a demon that Ili said had come to
prevent you from meeting the new god. During the battle, Ishtar had a vision of a woman with a
left green eye and a right blue eye. She was announced as Salar, Alvyra'adin by seven stars
encircling a massive, blue-flame leaved tree. Upon hearing the name, Ishtar's sense of time became
confused, all wounds were healed, and hunger and thirst sated.

She said that for the sake of Neha, Mushde, and Ili, she would offer Ishtar help in the future.
She told him that a spirit from the east was coming, and to be wary of the knowledge it offered.
She also offered him a needle which Ishtar saw in the tree, but he refused it.

At his refusal, the vision of the woman and tree faded away and he saw a bull charging toward him
from the east canyon. Introducing itself as Mu'igi, it possessed a totem Ishtar had made and
taught him the barbarian path of the totem warrior.

Seeing glints of light in the tree, Ibate and Inatu reached out and received powerful magical
items. Using your new abilities and weapons, you defeated the demon.

Approaching the tree, Ibate and Inatu had a vision, seeing the same tree and stars that Ishtar
did. The stars identified themselves as the Arynai, and gave them a mission to invite the Na'ani
(known to you as the unsag,) including Aqhat, and Zana, to found a new city-state to the west in
order to combat a growing darkness in the world. First, they were to return to the cave where they
buried a Na'ani child, and then return to Atra. After Ibate and Inatu's vision, you found the
gorge transformed. A stream now flows from the pool to the canyon, and flowers and bushes are
growing along its bank.

Ili apologized to you for being wrong about finding a new god as it appeared that it is a new
pantheon that has revealed itself. He then left on his own mission to the west.

You decided to rest in the gorge before traveling to the cave where the Na'ani child was buried.
Before sleeping, Ibate took time to fashion a holy symbol. He received help from Al'erda, one of
the Arynai.

At the cave, you met another one of the Arynai, Al'inar, who said that one of her responsibilities
is to guide the spirits of the dead to either Kur or Kiri (retcon; was paradise.) Ibate and Inatu
performed a ritual that raised the child from the dead. Although they didn't before understand the
language of the Na'ani, they could understand it now. The child, Yassib, asked if they would take
him to his father, Aqhat.

# The Life Is in the Blood

During the ritual that raised Yassib, the Na'ani child whose sacrifice you witnessed in the
Guteshasi Gorge, Mu'igi instructed Ishtar to eat dirt from Yassib's grave so that Ishtar could
learn the Na'ani language, saying that "the life is in the blood." After doing so, Ishtar gained
all the memories of Yassib, including comprehension of the child's language. The experience left
Ishtar exhausted and with a tattoo made up of dizzying geometries.

Outside the cave, Inatu encountered another one of the Council of Light, Al'shalor. He told her
that one of his roles is to defend humanity, and that he would leave a manifestation of his
presence with her in the form of a celestial eagle.

You then returned to Atra. Ibate and Inatu spoke to the Lugal who outlined his plan to use the
Na'ani as an enslaved workforce to empower Atra to become the dominant city-state Shinar. He also
"gave" them Aqhat, Yassib's father, as reward for their accomplishments.

Ishtar had another nightmare about drowning in an underwater cave tunnel. After waking, Mu'igi
told him that he could be rid of nightmares by consuming the blood of someone who had conquered
fear of water and directed him to such a Na'ani at the docks of Uru Marad. There he managed to get
into an altercation that resulted in him drawing blood from the Na'ani. He also learned that the
enslaved Na'ani are comprised of three families, each with a family head.

# The Family of Karit

Having learned that there are three families comprising the enslaved Na'ani, you decided to first
speak to Karit, the matriarch of Aqhat and Yassib's family. You went to the edge of the desert,
where Karit and some other members of her family were sent to fruitlessly dig for water as
punishment for rebelliousness.

Early in your conversation with Karit, Ibate and Inatu noticed shadowy figures looming over some
of Karit's family who had been digging. After pointing this out to Ishtar in Shinaric, Mu'igi told
him about a ritual to enable him to see the demons. On initiating the ritual, the demons attacked
you. Each time a demon was defeated they appeared to sink into the ground, but Al'inod, the
watcher of demons, bound them until all were defeated. He then exorcised them to Kur (more
specifically Zu, the deepest region of the underworld), where they would be unable to return to Ki
(earth,) and taught Ibate and Inatu a ritual to do the same.

Before leaving Karit, you witnessed another of the Council of Light: Al'havir, guardian of Kiri,
create a spring from the hole dug by Karit's men.

# The Family of Talah

Before proceeding to the family of Talah who are tending the gardens of the ziggurat, you returned
to your parents' house to collect Aqhat and Yassib. Your mother was there, and you learned from
her that she had been called by the Council of Light and given the same commission when she lived
in Nariveh. She was supportive of your mission, and said she would begin speaking to the other
members of the council of elders to try to understand what obstacles you might face from them.

At the ziggurat, you defeated the demons in the midst of Talah's family.

# The Family of Shari

Before approaching the family of Shari, Ishtar recalled Yassib's memories of the underworld, Kur.
It was a dark, shadowy place containing the spirits of other humans. Strangely, there were no
non-human spirits there, even though that's where Al'inod supposedly exorcised demons.

In the proximity of Shari and her family, Ea could be sensed, rather than the foreign spiritual
presence felt around the families of Karit and Talah. A battle ensued, resulting in the death of
Shari at the claws of a possessed Ishtar in bear form.

After the demons were defeated and they began to disappear into the ground, they spoke in unison
to question each of you, asking if you have forsaken Ea.

# Ea's Offer

After your battle with the Shari family and demons, you collapsed from exhaustion. While asleep,
you had a vision of Ea looming over the ziggurat in Atra. She tempted you with power,
mechanically in the form of a level-up, through a conduit of miraculously created wine.

All refused, and you saw Al'shalor launch into the sky in a streak of light, reform, and strike Ea
with a spear. You then saw two spiritual armies join in battle, one coming from the ground, the
other from the sky.

Ea then directed Mu'igi to possess Natum, your father. You found him at the ziggurat along with
demon-possessed guards. At the end of the battle, you were forced to incapacitate your father to
exorcise Mu'igi from him. After this, Mu'igi attempted to possess Ishtar but failed and then fled.

# Escape from Shinar

En route to the spring where you were to meet the Na'ani who agreed to leave Atra with you, you
encountered Mu'igi at the city gate. He offered to stay with Ishtar, but Ishtar refused. A battle
ensued. Mu'igi was defeated and Ibate and Inate bound him to Kur, although Ishtar tried to counter
the exorcism.

You found the Na'ani at the spring but they were paralyzed with fear. After investigating, your
eyes were opened to a flood of demons flowing around Atra, barring your path. Lugal Ishme arrived
shortly thereafter and tried to convince you to stay and work with him to conquer all of Shinar.
After you refused, you fought and defeated him and a swarm of fear-inducing demons. When faced
with the decision to kill or knock out the Lugal, Inatu, with encouragement from her siblings,
decided to kill him.

A storm of blue fire approached from the west, piercing the wall of demons, and you met the final
member of the Council of Light, Al'saia. She revealed to you through visions that after the
creation of humanity, a divine being came to the physical realm out of jealousy to usurp them.
Later in history, more divine beings descended to interbreed with humans to create a rival race
against them. Still later, you witnessed a meeting of the Council of Light where a large, bright
figure stated that humans were attempting to elevate themselves by reaching the spiritual realm.
Because humanity decided to rebel against their purpose of ruling the physical realm and instead
tried to overtake the spiritual realm, it was decided that they would be divided and ruled by the
members of the lesser spirits rather than One that created them. All of these events you witnessed
happened a long time in the past.

# Maera Shrine

On the way to a shrine called Maerah, Ishtar meditated in an attempt to adopt another totem spirit
after the loss of Mu'igi. He had a vision of a creature covered in wings and eyes. It wouldn't
give its name when asked, but it bonded with Ishtar nonetheless. Ishtar also continued giving
Yasiib Shinaric lessons.

Ibate spend the journey overtly displaying the power granted to him by the Seven. This convinced a
young woman named Ishara to turn over an idol to him which he refashioned into an image of a tree
and gave back to her. He then gave her a ride on Suli.

A man named Kushu was also hiding an idol, which he turned over to Inatu. Inatu, too, refashioned
the idol, though more skillfully, and returned it to Kushu.

As you neared Maerah, the terrain became mountainous. As you climbed, a massive tree came into
view, which you found to be growing on top of the shrine. Salar appeared to you, saying that Na'an
is a place a chaos and that she claims is as her own. She commissioned you to destroy tha Vaxai,
the giant divine and human hybrids which are the spawn of rebel spirits, and their demonic
knowledge. She promised that if you accept her as your lugal, she would establish a city and
nation of light and wonder through you. With flashes of lightning, she disappeared and demons were
exorcised from shrine.

After defeating the demons, you entered the shrine and battled the Vaxa priest inside. At the end
of the battle, Ili appeared and interpreted dreams had by some other Vaxai named Ohyah and Hahyah.
Ili's interpretation was that your group from Shinar had come to destroy the Vaxai and that the
Vaxa priest should return to his kin and warn them, stating that though they had committed
atrocities, they did not choose to become what they are and would be given a chance to submit to
Salar. You allowed the Vaxa priest to leave.

Following the battle, Ili gathered the people in the shrine and prepared a lord/vassal ritual,
similar to the one you prepared between Atra and Girsu. He asked the group if they would pledge
their allegiance to Salar and reject the rebel Arynai they served before. Many came and placed
idols on the altar, but Ishtar discovered that a man named Attar was disgruntled and didn't want
to follow Salar. Ishtar convinced him that he shouldn't offer false allegiance, and he left.

The altar's flame flared blue and a ball of flame floated through the bodies of goats separated
for the ritual, representing the role of the lord in the treaty. After pausing, it passed back
through, taking the place of the vassal, as well, communicating that Salar would bear the
consequences even if the humans involved violate the treaty.

Ili proclaimed that all the people would be ensis of Salar. Blue fire arced from the altar to
everyone, leveling you up and empowering the people. He then poured oil on you, commissioning you
as commanders of the conquest of Na'an, and you leveled up again.

He shared that the city of Balat, only a few minutes to the east of the Maera shrine, will be
their capital. It's a desolate place, having been ravaged by an ancestral foe: Dormin. After
taking Balat, the next objective could be to secure Udum, an important stronghold that controls
trade and travel routes.

# Dormin

After being commissioned as commanders of the conquest on Na'an, Ili directed the people to
prepare a meal, set up camp, and attend to the priests. He then asked to speak privately with you.
He shared with you that he came to Na'an through the desert, called The Pallat, where he communed
with Salar to receive the meanings of the Vaxai's dreams and was given direction that the city
chosen for you is Ballat.

You decided to speak to one of the priests of the Maera shrine to learn more about Balat. On the
way out of the room you were in, Ili held back Ishtar. He said it was a good thing that Ishtar
suggested to Attar to not pretend to give his allegiance to Salar, and that there's a town to the
west called Hevron, currently controlled by a Vaxai, which could become a city of refuge for those
who commit crimes or don't wish to be a part of the community. Ili predicted that Ishtar would see
Attar in three days and could take him to the Hevron if it was liberated by then.

Ishtar then saw the altar flames turn blue and something glinting within them. Investigating, he
found the Claws of the Called.

Speaking with the priest, you only learned that Balat is desolate and that the priests avoid it.
However, you were given a map of the region which showed several points of interest.

You used your shared spellcasting to cast Augury to determine if a diplomatic approach would be
successful with Dormin, the Vaxa controlling Balat. You received a "weal" response and proceeded
to the city.

You found and convinced Dormin to undergo the Metamorphose ritual and become a human. She left for
the Maera shrine and proceeded to the crypt beneath the ruined temple to Ba'al from which Ishtar
heard the lowing of Mu'igi.

# The Balat Catacombs

You descended the stairs leading into crypt. They split around another statue of Ba'al and led to
a long chamber lined with tombs surrounded by candles. After spending some time exploring, you
started hearing scratches from inside the tombs. You heard a crash in a chamber and discovered an
undead which you easily destroyed.

You then opened one of the tombs and found a mummified corpse holding a spear and a sickle-sword.
The weapons were matte black and covered in dark red geometric symbols. Ibate took the spear for
investigation and shortly thereafter started sprinting into a cave system adjacent to the crypt.
Ishtar was able to catch up to him and restrain him. After the spear was taken from Ibate, the
enchantment ended.

Undead from the crypt moved to block the exit from the cave. You proceeded deeper into the cave
and found a dark pool from which a multi-headed creature erupted. As you severed its heads, more
grew in their place. You eventually retreated, leaving it with nine heads. You cast Augury to
determine if it would be safe to rest. Before receiving a "woe" response, Ishtar had a vision of a
chamber in the crypt which could contain useful information. Inatu caused some of the undead
blocking the entrance into the crypt with a Minor Illusion spell and snuck through the rest. She
made her way to the chamber and found writings that revealed the creature is a Tannim, a
beast/spirit hybrid which could be subject to the Metamorphose ritual.

# Tannim Metamorphosis

On the way back from Dormin's study in the Balat catacombs, Inatu noticed that all the tomb
coverings were removed. As she was passing by the central crypt, she saw the eyes of the Ba'al
statue glowing red. She heard a voice in her head offering to help with the undead amassed outside
the cave entrance. Alanzu, suddenly appearing, stared at her intently. She reached out to him and
heard Al'Shalor's voice say, "Fight them!"

Rejecting aid from whom she presumed was Ba'al, Inatu attacked the horde of undead. Alanzu circled
overhead, a trail of blue flame intensifying behind him. When the animated corpses attempted to
strike Inatu in retaliation, a shield of radiant energy erupted around her, thwarting their
attacks. Ibate and Ishtar joined the battle, and though you began to quickly cut down the undead,
you had little effect on the horde at large.

After fighting for a short time, the flames emanating from Alanzu coalesced into a powerful
firestorm of blue flame, felling the remaining undead. You were unharmed, hearing roaring fire but
feeling only a warm breeze. When the firestorm cleared, the bodies of Dormin's husbands were
restored to the point of appearing as if they had just died, and you gained the Divine Shield and
Conflagration abilities.

On the way back to again confront the Tannin, Ishtar heard the voice of Mu'igi calling to him,
offering to help by possessing some of the heads of the Tannin.

With the aid of Mu'igi, you successfully completed the Metamorphose ritual of the Ceremony spell.
In the last seconds before the ritual completed, you all attempted to exert your will on the
outcome. Ishtar won out and guided the ritual so that the Tannin transformed into a snake.
Furthermore, through the latent power of the ritual, Mu'igi was transformed into an Arynai, freed
from Kur, and resumed his place as Ishtar's guardian spirit.

# The Conquest of Balat

After transforming the tannim into a snake, Ishtar befriended it with his primal powers and animal
handling skills. Ibate destroyed a statue of Ba'al you found near the pool, receiving divine help
from Al'inor. You Hallowed the pool in the Balat catacombs where the barrier between Kur and the
physical realm had been weakened. In addition to hallowing the pool, you used the ritual to fill
the area with light.

Ishtar attempted to carve Yassib's symbol into the cavern wall, but his attempts were mysteriously
thwarted. You deduced that there must be something demonic about the symbol.

After this, you investigated Dormin's study in the catacombs and learned the following:
- Blood may contain inherent power that can fuel magic. That appears to part of the meaning behind
the phrase "the life is in the blood."
- Dormin lamented not knowing how to create bloodgems. She only knows that human sacrifice and
demon binding are involved.
- Somehow, blood and demons were involved in creating the weapons held by the mummies of Dormin's
husbands.
- Dormin was the last fertile Vaxa. She was obsessed with restoring her fertility.
- Ugarit is an ancient library of demonic knowledge to the north on the shores of the Great Sea.
Accessing it is difficult due to the presence of tannim.
- Dormin struggled to perform magic rituals. She theorized that humans, as rulers of creation,
would have more success.

You also found the Tablet of Judgment written in the divine language Vynsil which you were able to
read after casting Comprehend Languages. The tablet contained an oracle which identified Ba'al as
the leader of the rebel Arynai and condemned him and his followers to destruction at the end of
time. It also gave you insight into the meanings of the names of The Council of Light.

You returned to Maerah and encountered Dormin who seemed very interested in the fate of her
research. You surmised that she wanted to become human to effectively perform whatever ritual she
was attempting in the Balat catacombs. This persuaded you to destroy her materials.

On the way to destroy them, you discovered that Ishara and Kushu had attracted a following which
was worshipping the images Ibate and Inatu had made them. You were able to correct this and help
them understand that they were given as gifts, not idols.

You then destroyed Dormin's research. She was enraged after being informed by Ishtar.

# The Conquest of Hevron

Before leaving for Hevron, Gishkin inquired after the results of your mission in Balat. After
apprising him, he said he would begin moving the community into the city per Ili's instructions.

You encountered a blockade on the road to Hevron. You saw that Shesai wore a crown inlaid with
blood gems. He attempted to activate a ritual that destroyed one of the gems, but it didn't affect
you, the destruction of Dormin's research somehow being connected to your protection.

You broke the blockade and proceeded to Hevron's gate. Shesai was called for by Dibelah, the queen
mother, when it became apparent that Hevron's defense was outmatched. After he joined, he quickly
dispatched Tuval, indicating that the tide, perhaps, turned in Hevron's favor.

During the battle, Ibate was incapacitated by a swarm of spikes animated by Dibelah. Between life
and death, he was able to perceive Tuval's descent into Kur. Ibate was able to rescue Tuval's soul
from the underworld and return with him to the physical realm.

With Tuval's help, you were able to dispatch Dibela and Shesai, winning the battle.

# The Hevron Bore

You retrieved the Crown of Ashalu from Shesai. You tried to destroy it with your coven magic, but
its immense demonic power thwarted your first attempt. As you entered Hevron, you encountered Ithi,
a man who had been sympathetic to Shesai's, unconscious, and learned that there were some others
suffering the same condition.

You went to Tuval's smithy, where you were gifted masterwork armor by the skilled craftsman. From
there, you entered Shesai's palace, convincing the remaining militia to lay down their arms and
surrender. You found Dormin imprisoned in palace. She revealed that a "bore" had been formed
underneath the palace though Shesai and Dam Hamor, a blood mage, had been attempting to free Ba'al,
also called Hadaad, from Kur Sig, the deepest part of the underworld.

Before descending into the cavern beneath the palace to face Dom Hamor, you again attempted to
destroy the Crown of Ashalu. That time, you were successful.

After bursting through the door into the room where Dam Hamopr was, Ishtar was banished into Kur.
There, he found the spirits of those who had fallen unconscious after The Forgetting had broken.
He forced his way past a large serpent, up some stairs, and found himself back in the physical
realm.

After you defeated the blood mage, a massive tannim burst from the waters in the cavern. You now
face the monster.

# Rescue from Kur

You chose to perform the Metamorphose ritual on the tannim within the Hevron bore. At the completion
of the ritual, it was transformed into a dove. After the din of battle waned, Ishtar sensed a
connection to other bores in the region: two to the north, one far to the south, and the bore in
the Balat catacombs. However, you perceived that the Hallow ritual you performed in the Balat
catacombs had formed a kind of barrier. Ishtar surmised that direct travel between the bores might
be possible.

Following Ishtar's insight, you realized that travel into Kur was possible through the Hevron bore.
You ventured there to free the spirits of those left comatose after the breaking of The Forgetting.
Kur appeared as a shattered version of the cave you had just left. Within it, you found the spirits
imprisoned in bronze cages. When you touched these cages, the spirits transformed into demons and
attacked. Each demon subjected one of you to a phantasm.

* Ibate faced a caricature of himself, consumed by a desire to dominate the Na'ani and subjugate
them for his own glory.
* Inatu battled a reanimated Lugal Ishme, shortly after she had beheaded him.
* Ishtar confronted a doppelgänger that transformed into a large, black lion after refusing to
submit to Salar.

Despite the harrowing trials, you prevailed against your phantasms. With the demons defeated, the
spirits were freed. They surged upward, returning to the physical realm.